# Reputation V0.0

Reputation represents positive-sum relationships between humans.
Your reputation should follow the quality and quantity of your relationships.
One should not chase reputation for reputation's sake; one simply seeks to help
others and accruing reputation is a biproduct of this act of giving.

## Design Principles

1. Reputation leans into existing web3 standards
2. Reputation is unopinionated as to why humans should endorse each other
3. Reputation can only be created by other members giving it to you
4. Reputation can be taken away by those that gave it to you
5. Reputation is non-transferrable
6. Reputation is governed with progressive decentralization in mind
7. Reputation is time invariant and does not care when you accrue it

## Layer 1: Token Interface

Reputation seeks to be visible to its users. Currently, that means being able
to interplay well with existing web3 products by adhering to an adopted token
interface like ERC20 or ERC721. While the relationships reputation represents
are non-fungible, the goal of building a unified reputation layer demands we
treat reputation tokens as fungible.

Therefore, we will take inspiration from the design of ERC20 for our initial
concept of reputation. We begin our design with [Open Zeppelin's ERC20 standard](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol).
To visually render as an ERC20, we must implement these public functions:

1. `name`
2. `symbol`
3. `decimals`
4. `totalSupply`
5. `balanceOf`

Beyond these, notice that most of what defines an ERC20 focuses on the abilty
to transfer tokens. However from Design Principle #5, we choose to not replicate
this functionality in our Reputation token. This includes foregoing allowances
and the notion of mint and burn. Because we have avoided a core aspect of ERC20,
our token does not actually inherit it and we just implement the pieces we need
manually into our own contract.

## Layer 2: Endorsements and Reserves

Reputation as a net score for a person is comprised of many micro-interactions
between members called endorsements. An endorsement is the atomic gift of
reputation to another member and is executed through a basic `endorse` call.
For every endorsement made, we track the two members involved, amount of
reputation granted, and the direction of reputation flow. With these building
blocks, we can construct a graph to quantify the strength of relationships
across an organization.

Endorsing needs constraints of opportunity cost to make the act of giving
actually meaningful, which we use the `reserves` mechansim for. A reserve is
a unit of _potential_ reputation that becomes _realized_ reputation when it is given
to another member via an endorsement. Each member has their own stack of reserves,
the potential to give to others, that they draw from when endorsing. Additionally, reserves introduce the opportunity cost of making regretful endorsements as the
action of unendorsing only credits your reserves a minority of what was used to
endorse with earlier. Reserves introduce opportunity cost without being stringent
as each member is constantly being given more reserves to endorse with.

## Layer 3: Issuing Claimable Reserves

We call the consistent creation and distribution of reserves to members `issuing`.
Issuing reserves is a math problem of increasing all members' reserve balances
proportional to their reputation without spending incredible amounts of gas.
Fortunately, this math problem is famously solved by [Sushi's implementation of mining rewards for liquidity pools](https://github.com/sushiswap/sushiswap/blob/canary/contracts/MasterChef.sol).

We adapt their design pattern to our situation by creating a relationship between
an exchange rate of new reserves and reputation that always increases. For each
member, we keep track of when they last claimed their entitled reserves and
give everyone the flexibility to claim reserves at their own pace without fear
of losing their rightful ownership.

What's amazing about this system is that end users don't even realize that this
accounting system is operating in the background as they only engage with the
`endorse` action that automatically claims new reserves for them on the fly.

## Layer 4: Sybil Resistance

Up to this point, we have been mainly thinking in the context of a fixed
number of players. As we design for the process of onboarding new members into
the reputation system, we need to account for what's known as "Sybil Resistance".
This is the ability for a system to deter and disable spamming efforts from
leeching on and hijacking a reward mechanism. In our case, Sybil attacks will
come in the form of spam addresses on the network trying to endorse each other
in a way that concentrates reputation (and therefore future reserve issuance) to
the attackers.

While we may feel the urge to design an elaborate mechanism embedded into the
number of members, reputation distribution, and etc., We look to take a more simplistic route.Designing Sybil Resistence into the math of our existing
values misses the point: humans know who the other humans are and not everyone
needs the unilateral ability to add new members. Our approach involves making
the Reputation contract "ownable" so that one specific address is permissioned
to activate and deactivate specific members. This address could be a personal
wallet, multi-sig wallet, or elaborate governance module built around the DAO's
own reputation. Regardless, we empower the DAO to take its own authority for how
it wants to permit new members to receive and grant endorsements.

## Layer 5: Member-scaled Reserve Issuance

Up to this point, we have been assuming a constant issuance volume for new
reserves (e.g. 1000 per block). Constant issuance however conflicts with the
notion of a positive-sum system (more members => more value) and Design Principle
#7. In a constant issuance system, those who join the DAO earlier have an easier
time accruing reputation because there are less members to divide it up amongst.
As the DAO grows, more members will be competing for the same fixed supply of
influence.

We instead design our issuance volume to scale linearly with the number of members
in the DAO. For example, assume we emit 1000 units of reserves per member in the
DAO every block. If the DAO starts with 3 members for 10 blocks and then 5 for
the next 20 blocks, our issuance schedule would release 30000 reserves in the
first 10 blocks (`1000 x 3 x 10`) and then 100000 over the next 20 blocks
(`1000 x 5 x 20`) for a total of 130000 over the first 20 blocks of the DAO's life.
Keeping the issuance volume linear with respect to the number of members allows
the DAO to keep the mean-endorsement-opportunity constant indefinitely, where
mean-endorsement-opportunity is the number of new reserves per block divides by
the number of members in the DAO.
